Javascript global object is window
Node global object is global
we can access every global object using it like window.console.log() and global.console.log()

every file in a node is considered as module.
every node application contains one file(module) which is a main module. It contains a module object that appears to be 
global but not global and scoped to that file. which is different in Javascript.

node wraps the code in a wrapper function IIFE (Module Wrapper Function).

Event is one of the most core important module of node. An event is a signal that indicates that something has happened.
Events contain a class called EventEmitter and most classes in node use it. Alot of functionality in node is based on 
eventemitter class.

Whenever you want to raise an events in your app, make a class and extends it with EventEmitter to contains all the 
functionality that class have + the additional one.
1) register a listener
2) Raise an event

Http is one of the most important module of node which we use to create networking applications to create a web server that 
listens a web request etc.

NPM is command line tool to install any third party modules in our application.
npm i -g npm@5.5.1

before adding any node packages add a package.json file which contains the meta data information about our project.
create it using "npm init" and "npm init --yes" before adding any package to node app.

Building RESTFUL APIs using Express

fast and lightweight framework for web applications build on the top of the http module. 
REST stands for Representational State Transfer
RESTful service/RESTful APIs is a method to communicate with the services present at the server using Http protocol.
Http Methods:
GET(fetch data), POST(Create data), PUT(update data), DELETE(removing data).

Express is framework(provide Structure) for creating maintainable endpoints in our application.
Environment variable is a value that sets outside of application and part of the environment where process is running.
We use PORT b/c we can't hardocode the port 3000 value as it can not be available in production environment.

Route params value to get year/month
Query params additional info ?sortBy=name

postman for testing and sending http requests to servers.

Json web token is a long string that identifies a user just like driving license.




 